= Galaxy config file

All programs can load defaults from a config file. Locations for this
file are set by the command line (--config / -C option), GALAXY_CONFIG
environment variable, /etc/galaxy.conf or /usr/local/etc/galaxy.conf.

The config file contains a YAML structure:

host                galaxy.agent.host                   galaxy.console.host
machine             galaxy.agent.machine
console             galaxy.agent.console
repository          galaxy.agent.config-root
binaries            galaxy.agent.binaries-root
deploy_dir          galaxy.agent.deploy-dir
verbose
data_dir            galaxy.agent.data-dir
log                 galaxy.agent.log                    galaxy.console.log
log_level           galaxy.agent.log-level              galaxy.console.log-level
pid_file            galaxy-agent.pid-file               galaxy.console.pid-file
user                galaxy.agent.user                   galaxy.console.user
announce_interval   galaxy.agent.announce-interval
event_listener      galaxy.agent.event_listener         galaxy.console.event_listener
announcement_url                                        galaxy.console.announcement-url
ping_interval                                           galaxy.console.ping-interval
environment                                             galaxy.console.environment


= Communication

Agent --> Console:

console announces HTTP over port 4442 by default, only HTTP possible.
config must contain "http://", otherwise error. "druby://" is accepted but fails at runtime.

agent config: galaxy.agent.console
console config: galaxy.console.announcement-url

Command line --> Console

Uses port 4440 by default, druby protocol, only druby seems to be possible.

command line config: galaxy.client.console
console config:

console.rb suggests that this URL is configurable (see

def Console.start args
            host = args[:host] || "localhost"
            drb_url = args[:url] || "druby://" + host # DRB transport

), however this is called only in a single location (bin/galaxy-console) with a config object that comes out of Galaxy::ConsoleConfigurator#configure, which in turn

({
    :environment => guess(:environment),
    :verbose => @config.verbose || false,
    :log => guess(:log),
    :log_level => guess(:log_level),
    :pid_file => guess(:pid_file),
    :user => guess(:user),
    :host => guess(:host),
    :announcement_url => guess(:announcement_url),
    :ping_interval => guess(:ping_interval),
    :console_proxyied_url => guess(:console_proxyied_url),
    :event_listener => guess(:event_listener)
})

never sets the :uri parameters. So it seems to be non-configurable.

Command line -> Agent communication

command line config: Takes information from the console
agent config: galaxy.agent.host, defaults to druby, port 4441

Another port can be given: druby://<hostname>:5555

Using HTTP as protocol fails:

gems/galaxy-3.0.0/lib/galaxy/transport.rb:114:in `publish': Galaxy::Agent doesn't contain 'process_post' and 'process_get' methods (TypeError)

Only druby possible.


= sample config file

#
# Console
#
galaxy.console.host:             localhost
galaxy.console.ping-interval:    60
galaxy.console.log:              STDOUT
galaxy.console.log-level:        DEBUG
galaxy.console.pid-file:         /tmp/galaxy/console.pid
galaxy.console.announcement-url: http://localhost
#
# Agent
#
galaxy.agent.host:               localhost
galaxy.agent.machine:            localhost
galaxy.agent.console:            http://localhost
galaxy.agent.deploy-dir:         /tmp/galaxy/deploy
galaxy.agent.data-dir:           /tmp/galaxy/data
galaxy.agent.log:                STDOUT
galaxy.agent.log-level:          DEBUG
galaxy.agent.pid_file:           /tmp/galaxy/agent.pid
galaxy.agent.announce-interval:  30
#
# These URIs must be adjusted!
galaxy.agent.config-root:        http://config-server/config
galaxy.agent.binaries-root:      http://config-server/binaries
#
# Command line
#
galaxy.client.console:           druby://localhost:4440



